{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww23040\viewh17400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf0 Abstract:\
The project, titled "Strokes Uncovered," presents a comprehensive exploration of machine learning techniques\'a0applied to the prediction and prevention of strokes. This project primarily focuses on leveraging the potential of machine learning techniques, including data analysis, preprocessing, and advanced modeling, to obtain\'a0valuable insights into the risk factors associated with strokes and to make\'a0predictive tools for preventing them.\
\
In this\'a0project, we will be performing \'a0thorough exploratory data analysis (EDA) to uncover hidden relationships and the intricate patterns within our dataset. Our data preprocessing phase will involve tasks such as data cleaning, feature engineering, and data balancing through effective data sampling techniques. The dataset consists of various attributes, including age, hypertension, heart disease, marital status, work type, residence type, average glucose level, BMI, smoking status, and gender.\
\
Machine learning models, including Logistic Regression, Decision Trees, K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN), and XGBoost, will be skillfully employed for modeling and evaluation. These models will undergo fine-tuning and optimization to ensure accurate predictions of stroke occurrences.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 How- ever, we recognize the opportunity to advance our research by incorporat- ing deep learning techniques, specifically Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN), which were recently introduced by our professor in the class and we employ that with particular emphasis on analyzing Brain CT scan im- ages.\
By utilizing CNN , we intend to harness the power of image data to enhance our predictive models. This innovative approach seeks to leverage the information extracted from Brain CT scan im- ages to gain a deeper understanding of the intricate relationships between stroke risk factors and the physiological characteristics of the brain.\
This expansion into deep learning and medical imaging analysis will introduce a novel dimension to our project, differentiating it from the traditional CSV-based dataset approaches. It will allow us to explore uncharted territory, pushing the boundaries of stroke prediction research while demonstrating originality and relevance to the class.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
In summary, "Strokes Uncovered" fuses\'a0machine learning techniques with EDA to unveil predictive insights for stroke prevention, paving the way for the application of machine learning in healthcare and risk assessment.\
}